[Subtask] Connectors for Spark SQL Query Engine -> TPC-H (#3211)
apache/incubator-kyuubi: docs/connector/spark/tpch.rst

.. _spark-tpch-deps:

Dependencies
************

The **classpath** of kyuubi spark sql engine with TiDB supported consists of

1. kyuubi-spark-sql-engine-|release|_2.12.jar, the engine jar deployed with Kyuubi distributions
2. a copy of spark distribution
3. kyuubi-spark-connector-tpch-|release|_2.12.jar, which can be found in the `Maven Central`_

In order to make the TPC-H connector package visible for the runtime classpath of engines, we can use one of these methods:

1. Put the TPC-H connector package into ``$SPARK_HOME/jars`` directly
2. Set ``spark.jars=kyuubi-spark-connector-tpch-|release|_2.12.jar``

.. _spark-tpch-conf:

Configurations
**************

To add TPC-H tables as a catalog, we can set the following configurations:

.. code-block:: properties

   spark.sql.catalog.tpch=org.apache.kyuubi.spark.connector.tpch.TPCHCatalog
   spark.sql.catalog.tpch.excludeDatabases=sf10000,sf30000  # optional Exclude database list from the catalog
   spark.sql.catalog.tpch.useAnsiStringType=false           # optional When true, use CHAR VARCHAR; otherwise use STRING
   spark.sql.catalog.tpch.read.maxPartitionBytes=134217728  # optional Max data split size in bytes per task

> Consider to reduce `spark.sql.catalog.tpch.read.maxPartitionBytes` if you want a higher parallelism.

Reviewer: can be appended in L67?

Author: updated

TPC-H Operations
----------------

Listing databases under `tpch` catalog.

.. code-block:: sql
    SHOW DATABASES IN tpch;

Listing tables under `tpch.sf1` database.

.. code-block:: sql
    SHOW TABLES IN tpch.sf1;

Switch current database to `tpch.sf1` and run a query against it.

.. code-block:: sql
    USE tpch.sf1;
    SELECT * FROM orders;

> .. _Official Documentation: https://www.tpc.org/tpc_documents_current_versions/pdf/tpc-h_v3.0.1.pdf

Reviewer: how about https://www.tpc.org/tpch/default5.asp

Author: changed to https://www.tpc.org/tpch/

> .. _Maven Central: https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/kyuubi/kyuubi-spark-connector-tpch_2.12/

Reviewer 2: the maven central link returns 404 error.

Author: Because we have not release 1.6.0

data source. When you query a TPC-H table, the connector generates the data on the fly using a deterministic algorithm.

Goto `Try Kyuubi`_ to explore TPC-H data instantly!

TPC-H Integration
------------------

To enable the integration of kyuubi spark sql engine and TPC-H through
Apache Spark Datasource V2 and Catalog APIs, you need to:

- Referencing the TPC-H connector :ref:`dependencies<spark-tpch-deps>`
- Setting the spark catalog :ref:`configurations<spark-tpch-conf>`

.. _spark-tpch-deps:

Dependencies
************

The **classpath** of kyuubi spark sql engine with TiDB supported consists of

1. kyuubi-spark-sql-engine-\ |release|\ _2.12.jar, the engine jar deployed with Kyuubi distributions
2. a copy of spark distribution
3. kyuubi-spark-connector-tpch-\ |release|\ _2.12.jar, which can be found in the `Maven Central`_

In order to make the TPC-H connector package visible for the runtime classpath of engines, we can use one of these methods:

1. Put the TPC-H connector package into ``$SPARK_HOME/jars`` directly
2. Set spark.jars=kyuubi-spark-connector-tpch-\ |release|\ _2.12.jar

.. _spark-tpch-conf:

Configurations
**************

> To add TPC-H tables as a catalog, we can set the following configurations:

Reviewer: Shall we mention where to set these configurations?

.. code-block:: properties

>    spark.sql.catalog.tpch=org.apache.kyuubi.spark.connector.tpch.TPCHCatalog
>    spark.sql.catalog.tpch.excludeDatabases=sf10000,sf30000  # optional Exclude database list from the catalog
>    spark.sql.catalog.tpch.useAnsiStringType=false           # optional When true, use CHAR VARCHAR; otherwise use STRING
>    spark.sql.catalog.tpch.read.maxPartitionBytes=134217728  # optional Max data split size in bytes per task, consider to reduce it if you want a higher parallelism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # (required) Register a catalog named `tpch` for the spark engine.
   spark.sql.catalog.tpch=org.apache.kyuubi.spark.connector.tpch.TPCHCatalog
   #  Exclude database list from the catalog
   spark.sql.catalog.tpch.excludeDatabases=sf10000,sf30000
   # (optional) When true, use CHAR/VARCHAR; otherwise use STRING
   spark.sql.catalog.tpch.useAnsiStringType=false
   # (optional) Maximum bytes per task, consider reducing it if you want higher parallelism.
   spark.sql.catalog.tpch.read.maxPartitionBytes=134217728
```

Questions,

1. the catalog name `tpch` is hard coded, or configurable
2. if configurable, are we able to register multiple tpch catalogs, such as tpch1, tpch2 ...
3. what happened if `excludeDatabases` contains invalid databases, if not what are all the candidates
4. what are the differences in user experiences for char/varchars and strings

Author: 1. configurable
2. you are right
3. ignore invalid databases and log warning message. all vaild database list is: sf0, tiny, sf1, sf10, sf30, sf100, sf300, sf1000, sf3000, sf10000, sf30000, sf100000
4. different output in `desc tcph.sf1.orders` or `show create table tcph.sf1.orders`

Reviewer: can we elaborate on these a bit in comments for each config?

Author: yeah, editing
